{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red109\green109\blue109;\red32\green32\blue32;\red191\green100\blue38;
\red153\green168\blue186;\red133\green96\blue154;\red88\green118\blue71;\red254\green187\blue91;\red86\green132\blue173;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c42745\c42745\c42745;\csgenericrgb\c12549\c12549\c12549;\csgenericrgb\c74902\c39216\c14902;
\csgenericrgb\c60000\c65882\c72941;\csgenericrgb\c52157\c37647\c60392;\csgenericrgb\c34510\c46275\c27843;\csgenericrgb\c99608\c73333\c35686;\csgenericrgb\c33725\c51765\c67843;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -- Creating raw tables to store the data and modify the data as required\
\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 Title_raw(\
   \cf6 tid \cf4 varchar primary key,\
   \cf6 titleType \cf4 varchar,\
   \cf6 primaryTitle \cf4 varchar,\
   \cf6 original_title \cf4 varchar,\
   \cf6 isAdult \cf4 varchar,\
   \cf6 startYear \cf4 varchar,\
   \cf6 endYear \cf4 varchar,\
   \cf6 runtimeMinutes \cf4 varchar,\
   \cf6 genres \cf4 varchar\
\cf5 )\cf4 ;\cf2 --TIME: 33ms\
\cf4 copy \cf5 Title_raw \cf4 from \cf7 '/Users/anirudhramesh/Desktop/INTRO TO BIG DATA/ASSN2/data/title_basics.tsv'\
\cf4 delimiter \cf7 e'\cf5 \\t\cf7 ' \cf4 null \cf7 '\\N' \cf4 csv header quote \cf7 e'\cf5 \\b\cf7 '\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 27s 893ms\
\
\cf4 delete from \cf5 title_raw \cf4 where \cf6 isAdult \cf5 = \cf7 'true'\cf4 ;\cf2 -- TIME: 3s\
\
\cf4 update \cf5 Title_raw \cf4 set \cf6 tid \cf5 = 
\f1\i \cf8 replace 
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf6 tid\cf4 , \cf7 'tt'\cf4 , \cf7 ''\cf5 )\cf4 ;\cf2 -- TIME: 52s 640ms\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 Title_raw\
    \cf4 alter column \cf6 tid\
        \cf4 type integer using\cf5 (\cf6 tid\cf5 ::\cf4 integer\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 57s 812ms\
\
\
\
\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 title_principals (\
    \cf6 id \cf4 varchar,\
    \cf6 ordering \cf4 int,\
    \cf6 nid \cf4 varchar,\
    \cf6 category \cf4 varchar,\
    \cf6 job \cf4 varchar,\
    \cf6 characters \cf4 varchar\
\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 15ms\
\
\cf4 copy \cf5 title_principals \cf4 from \cf7 '/Users/anirudhramesh/Desktop/INTRO TO BIG DATA/ASSN2/data/principals.tsv'\
\cf4 delimiter \cf7 e'\cf5 \\t\cf7 ' \cf4 null \cf7 '\\N' \cf4 csv header quote \cf7 e'\cf5 \\b\cf7 '\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 55s 905ms\
\
\cf4 update \cf5 title_principals\
    \cf4 set \cf6 id \cf5 = 
\f1\i \cf8 replace
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf6 id\cf4 , \cf7 'tt'\cf4 ,\cf7 ''\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 55s 260ms\
\
\cf4 update \cf5 title_principals\
    \cf4 set \cf6 nid \cf5 = 
\f1\i \cf8 replace
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf6 nid\cf4 , \cf7 'nm'\cf4 ,\cf7 ''\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 1m 58s\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_principals\
    \cf4 alter column \cf6 id \cf4 type integer using \cf5 (\cf6 id\cf5 ::\cf4 integer\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 3m 56s\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_principals\
    \cf4 alter column \cf6 nid \cf4 type integer using \cf5 (\cf6 nid\cf5 ::\cf4 integer\cf5 )\cf4 ;\cf2 -- TIME:2m 41s\
\
\cf4 update \cf5 title_principals\
    \cf4 set \cf6 characters \cf5 = 
\f1\i \cf8 replace
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf6 characters\cf4 , \cf7 '["'\cf4 ,\cf7 ''\cf5 )\cf4 ;\cf2 -- TIME: 1m 24s\
\
\cf4 update \cf5 title_principals\
\cf4 set \cf6 characters \cf5 = 
\f1\i \cf8 replace
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf6 characters\cf4 , \cf7 '"]'\cf4 ,\cf7 ''\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 2m 3s\
\
\
\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 name_basics (\
 \cf6 nid \cf4 varchar primary key ,\
 \cf6 primaryName \cf4 varchar,\
 \cf6 birthYear \cf4 varchar,\
 \cf6 deathYear \cf4 varchar,\
 \cf6 primaryProfession \cf4 varchar,\
 \cf6 knownforTitles \cf4 varchar\
\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 31ms\
\
\cf4 copy \cf5 name_basics \cf4 from \cf7 '/Users/anirudhramesh/Desktop/INTRO TO BIG DATA/ASSN2/data/name_basics.tsv'\
\cf4 delimiter \cf7 e'\cf5 \\t\cf7 ' \cf4 null \cf7 '\\N' \cf4 csv header quote \cf7 e'\cf5 \\b\cf7 '\cf4 ; \cf2 --TIME: 19s\
\
\cf4 update \cf5 name_basics\
    \cf4 set \cf6 nid \cf5 = 
\f1\i \cf8 replace
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf6 nid\cf4 , \cf7 'nm'\cf4 , \cf7 ''\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 47s 365ms\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 name_basics\
    \cf4 alter column \cf6 nid \cf4 type integer using \cf5 (\cf6 nid\cf5 ::\cf4 integer\cf5 )\cf4 ;\cf2 -- TIME: 16s 981ms\
\
\
\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 title_ratings (\
    \cf6 id \cf4 varchar primary key,\
    \cf6 averagerating \cf4 float,\
    \cf6 numvotes \cf4 int\
\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 29ms\
\
\cf4 copy \cf5 title_ratings \cf4 from \cf7 '/Users/anirudhramesh/Desktop/INTRO TO BIG DATA/ASSN2/data/title_ratings.tsv'\
\cf4 delimiter \cf7 e'\cf5 \\t\cf7 ' \cf4 null \cf7 '\\N' \cf4 csv header quote \cf7 e'\cf5 \\b\cf7 '\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 1s\
\
\cf4 update \cf5 title_ratings\
\cf4 set \cf6 id \cf5 = 
\f1\i \cf8 replace 
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf6 id\cf4 ,\cf7 'tt'\cf4 , \cf7 ''\cf5 )\cf4 ;\cf2 -- TIME: 3s 378ms\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_ratings\
    \cf4 alter column \cf6 id \cf4 type integer using \cf5 (\cf6 id\cf5 ::\cf4 integer\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 2s 743ms\
\
\
-- CREATING THE TABLES REQUIRED in Q1\
\
\
-- CREATE TITLE\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 title\
\cf4 AS\
    SELECT \cf6 tid\cf4 ,\
           \cf6 titletype\cf4 ,\
           \cf6 primarytitle\cf4 ,\
           \cf6 original_title\cf4 ,\
           \cf6 startyear\cf4 ,\
           \cf6 endyear\cf4 ,\
           \cf6 runtimeMinutes\cf4 ,\
           \cf6 averagerating\cf4 ,\
           \cf6 numvotes\
    \cf4 FROM \cf5 Title_raw\
        \cf4 left join \cf5 title_ratings \cf4 on \cf5 title_raw.\cf6 tid \cf5 = title_ratings.\cf6 id\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 29s 406ms\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title\
    \cf4 add constraint \cf5 pk_id \cf4 primary key\cf5 (\cf6 tid\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 20s 55ms\
\
\
-- CREATE GENRE\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 genre (\
    \cf6 id \cf4 serial primary key,\
    \cf6 genres \cf4 varchar\
\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME : 41ms\
\
\cf4 insert into \cf5 genre(\cf6 genres\cf5 ) (\cf4 select distinct 
\f1\i \cf8 unnest
\f0\i0 \cf5 (
\f1\i \cf8 string_to_array
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf6 genres\cf4 , \cf7 ','\cf5 ))\
                        \cf4 as \cf5 genres \cf4 from \cf5 title_raw)\cf4 ;\cf2 -- TIME: 4s 56ms\
\
\
-- CREATE TITLE_GENRE\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 title_genre\
\cf4 as\
    select \cf5 genre.\cf6 id \cf4 as \cf5 genre\cf4 , \cf6 tid \cf4 as \cf5 title\
    \cf4 from \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf6 tid\cf4 , 
\f1\i \cf8 unnest
\f0\i0 \cf5 (
\f1\i \cf8 string_to_array
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf6 genres\cf4 , \cf7 ','\cf5 )) \cf4 as \cf5 genres \cf4 from \cf5 title_raw) \cf4 as \cf5 t\
    \cf4 join \cf5 genre \cf4 on \cf5 genre.\cf6 genres \cf5 = t.genres\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME; 18s\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_genre\
    \cf4 add foreign key \cf5 (\cf6 genre\cf5 ) \cf4 references \cf5 genre(\cf6 id\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 1s\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_genre\
    \cf4 add foreign key \cf5 (\cf6 title\cf5 ) \cf4 references \cf5 title(\cf6 tid\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 5s\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_genre\
    \cf4 add primary key  \cf5 (\cf6 genre\cf4 , \cf6 title\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 --TIME: 6s 865ms\
\
\
-- CREATE MEMBER\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 member\
\cf4 as select \cf5 name_basics.\cf6 nid \cf4 as \cf5 id\cf4 ,\
          \cf5 name_basics.\cf6 primaryName \cf4 as name,\
          \cf5 name_basics.\cf6 birthYear \cf4 as \cf5 birthYear\cf4 ,\
          \cf5 name_basics.\cf6 deathyear \cf4 as \cf5 deathYear\
    \cf4 FROM \cf5 name_basics\cf4 ; \cf2 --TIME: 16s 392ms\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 member\
    \cf4 add primary key \cf5 (\cf6 id\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 7s\
\
\
\
-- CREATE TITLE_ACTOR\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 Title_actor\
\cf4 as select distinct \cf6 nid \cf4 as \cf5 actor\cf4 , \cf6 id \cf4 as \cf5 title \cf4 from \cf5 title_principals\
\cf4 where \cf6 category \cf5 = \cf7 'actor'\
\cf4 and 
\f1\i \cf8 exists
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf8 * \cf4 from \cf5 member \cf4 where \cf5 member.\cf6 id \cf5 = title_principals.\cf6 nid\cf5 )\
\cf4 and 
\f1\i \cf8 exists 
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf8 * \cf4 from \cf5 title_raw \cf4 where \cf5 title_principals.\cf6 id \cf5 = title_raw.\cf6 tid\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 34s 312ms\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_actor\
    \cf4 add foreign key \cf5 (\cf6 actor\cf5 ) \cf4 references \cf5 member(\cf6 id\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 5s 83ms\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_actor\
    \cf4 add foreign key \cf5 (\cf6 title\cf5 ) \cf4 references \cf5 title(\cf6 tid\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 6s 371ms\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_actor\
    \cf4 add primary key \cf5 (\cf6 actor\cf4 , \cf6 title\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 6s 895ms\
\
\
-- CREATE TITLE_DIRECTOR\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 Title_director\
\cf4 as select distinct \cf6 nid \cf4 as \cf5 director\cf4 , \cf6 id \cf4 as \cf5 title \cf4 from \cf5 title_principals\
\cf4 where \cf6 category \cf5 = \cf7 'director'\
\cf4 and 
\f1\i \cf8 exists
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf8 * \cf4 from \cf5 member \cf4 where \cf5 member.\cf6 id \cf5 = title_principals.\cf6 nid\cf5 )\
\cf4 and 
\f1\i \cf8 exists 
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf8 * \cf4 from \cf5 title_raw \cf4 where \cf5 title_principals.\cf6 id \cf5 = title_raw.\cf6 tid\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 --TIME: 38s 906ms\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_director\
    \cf4 add foreign key \cf5 (\cf6 director\cf5 ) \cf4 references \cf5 member(\cf6 id\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 3s 52ms\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_director\
    \cf4 add foreign key \cf5 (\cf6 title\cf5 ) \cf4 references \cf5 title(\cf6 tid\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 4s 88ms\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_director\
    \cf4 add primary key \cf5 (\cf6 director\cf4 , \cf6 title\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 5s 587ms\
\
\
-- CREATE TITLE_PRODUCER\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 Title_producer\
\cf4 as select distinct \cf6 nid \cf4 as \cf5 producer\cf4 , \cf6 id \cf4 as \cf5 title \cf4 from \cf5 title_principals\
\cf4 where \cf6 category \cf5 = \cf7 'producer'\
\cf4 and 
\f1\i \cf8 exists
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf8 * \cf4 from \cf5 member \cf4 where \cf5 member.\cf6 id \cf5 = title_principals.\cf6 nid\cf5 )\
\cf4 and 
\f1\i \cf8 exists 
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf8 * \cf4 from \cf5 title_raw \cf4 where \cf5 title_principals.\cf6 id \cf5 = title_raw.\cf6 tid\cf5 )\cf4 ;\cf2 -- TIME: 32s 147ms\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_producer\
    \cf4 add foreign key \cf5 (\cf6 producer\cf5 ) \cf4 references \cf5 member(\cf6 id\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 2s 843ms\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_producer\
    \cf4 add foreign key \cf5 (\cf6 title\cf5 ) \cf4 references \cf5 title(\cf6 tid\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 2s 994ms\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_producer\
    \cf4 add primary key \cf5 (\cf6 producer\cf4 , \cf6 title\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 1s 755ms\
\
\
-- CREATE TITLE_WRITER\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 Title_writer\
\cf4 as select distinct \cf6 nid \cf4 as \cf5 writer\cf4 , \cf6 id \cf4 as \cf5 title \cf4 from \cf5 title_principals\
\cf4 where \cf6 category \cf5 = \cf7 'writer'\
\cf4 and 
\f1\i \cf8 exists
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf8 * \cf4 from \cf5 member \cf4 where \cf5 member.\cf6 id \cf5 = title_principals.\cf6 nid\cf5 )\
\cf4 and 
\f1\i \cf8 exists 
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf8 * \cf4 from \cf5 title_raw \cf4 where \cf5 title_principals.\cf6 id \cf5 = title_raw.\cf6 tid\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 40s 168ms\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_writer\
    \cf4 add foreign key \cf5 (\cf6 writer\cf5 ) \cf4 references \cf5 member(\cf6 id\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 3s 573ms\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_writer\
    \cf4 add foreign key \cf5 (\cf6 title\cf5 ) \cf4 references \cf5 title(\cf6 tid\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 4s 251ms\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 title_writer\
    \cf4 add primary key \cf5 (\cf6 writer\cf4 , \cf6 title\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 4s 316ms\
\
-- CREATE CHARACTERS\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 characters (\
    \cf6 id \cf4 serial primary key,\
    \cf6 characters \cf4 varchar\
\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 -- TIME: 21ms\
\cf4 insert into \cf5 Characters (\cf6 Characters\cf5 ) (\cf4 select distinct 
\f1\i \cf8 unnest
\f0\i0 \cf5 (
\f1\i \cf8 string_to_array
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf6 Characters\cf4 , \cf7 '","'\cf5 ))\
    \cf4 as \cf5 Characters \cf4 from \cf5 title_principals)\cf4 ; \cf2 --TIME: 26s 419ms\
\
\
\
-- CREATE ACTOR_TITLE_CHARACTER\
\cf4 CREATE TABLE \cf5 actor_title_character\
\cf4 as \cf5 (\cf4 select distinct \cf5 t.\cf6 nid \cf4 as \cf5 actor\cf4 , \cf5 t.\cf6 id \cf4 as \cf5 title\cf4 , \cf5 characters.\cf6 id \cf4 as \cf5 characters\
    \cf4 from \cf5 ((\cf4 select \cf6 id\cf4 , \cf6 nid\cf4 , 
\f1\i \cf8 unnest
\f0\i0 \cf5 (
\f1\i \cf8 string_to_array
\f0\i0 \cf5 (title_principals.\cf6 characters\cf4 , \cf7 '","'\cf5 )) \cf4 as \cf5 sep\
          \cf4 from \cf5 title_principals) \cf4 as \cf5 p\
    \cf4 JOIN \cf5 Title_actor \cf4 on \cf5 p.\cf6 nid \cf5 = Title_actor.\cf6 actor \cf4 and \cf5 p.\cf6 id \cf5 = title_actor.\cf6 title\cf5 ) \cf4 as \cf5 t\
    \cf4 join \cf5 characters \cf4 on \cf5 t.sep = characters.\cf6 characters\cf5 )\cf4 ;  \cf2 --TIME: 51s 99ms\
\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 actor_title_character\
\cf4 add foreign key \cf5 (\cf6 actor\cf4 , \cf6 title\cf5 ) \cf4 references \cf5 Title_actor(\cf6 actor\cf4 , \cf6 title\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 --TIME: 12s 572ms\
\cf4 alter table \cf5 actor_title_character\
\cf4 add foreign key \cf5 (\cf6 characters\cf5 ) \cf4 references \cf5 characters(\cf6 id\cf5 )\cf4 ; \cf2 --TIME: 2s 475ms\
\
\
\
----- TOTAL TIME: AROUND 35 MINUTES \
\
\
\
\
\
-- QUERY1\
\cf4 select 
\f1\i \cf8 count
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf8 *\cf5 ) \cf4 from \cf5 Title_Actor\
    \cf4 left join \cf5 actor_title_character \cf4 as \cf5 atc \cf4 on \cf5 Title_Actor.\cf6 actor \cf5 = atc.\cf6 actor \cf4 and \cf5 Title_Actor.\cf6 title \cf5 = atc.\cf6 title\
\cf4 where \cf5 atc.\cf6 characters \cf4 is null;\
\
\
\cf2 -- QUERY2\
\cf4 SELECT Distinct \cf6 name  \cf4 from\
    \cf5 ((\cf4 select \cf6 id\cf4 , \cf6 name\cf4 , \cf6 birthYear\cf4 , \cf6 deathYear \cf4 from \cf5 member \cf4 where \cf6 name \cf4 like \cf7 'Phi%' \cf4 and \cf6 deathYear \cf4 is null  \cf5 ) \cf4 as m\
        join \cf5 title_actor t \cf4 on m\cf5 .\cf6 id \cf5 = t.\cf6 actor\cf5 ) \cf4 as \cf5 p\
    \cf4 left join \cf5 ((\cf4 select \cf6 tid\cf4 , \cf6 original_title\cf4 , \cf6 startyear \cf4 from \cf5 title \cf4 where \cf6 startYear \cf5 != \cf7 '2014'\cf5 ) \cf4 as \cf5 n\
        \cf4 join \cf5 title_actor \cf4 on \cf5 n.\cf6 tid \cf5 = Title_actor.\cf6 title\cf5 ) \cf4 as \cf5 p1\
    \cf4 on \cf5 p1.\cf6 tid \cf5 = p.\cf6 id \cf4 ;\
\
\
\
\
\cf2 -- QUERY 3\
\cf4 select \cf5 counter.\cf6 name\cf4 , 
\f1\i \cf8 count
\f0\i0 \cf5 (counter.\cf6 title\cf5 ) \cf4 as \cf5 Counts\
\cf4 from \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf5 prod.\cf6 title\cf4 , M\cf5 .\cf6 name\
     \cf4 from \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf5 gen.\cf6 title\cf4 , \cf5 tp.\cf6 producer\cf4 , \cf5 gen.\cf6 startYear\cf4 , \cf5 gen.\cf6 genre\
           \cf4 from \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf5 tg.\cf6 title\cf4 , \cf5 t.\cf6 startYear\cf4 , \cf5 tg.\cf6 genre\
                 \cf4 from \cf5 (\cf4 select \cf6 title\cf4 , \cf6 genre\
                       \cf4 from \cf5 title_genre\
                       \cf4 where \cf6 genre \cf5 = (\cf4 select \cf6 id\
                                      \cf4 from \cf5 Genre\
                                      \cf4 where \cf6 genres \cf5 = \cf7 'Talk-Show'\cf5 )) \cf4 as \cf5 tg\
                          \cf4 join \cf5 title t \cf4 on \cf5 t.\cf6 tid \cf5 = tg.\cf6 title\
                 \cf4 where \cf6 startYear \cf5 = \cf7 '2017'\cf5 ) \cf4 as \cf5 gen\
                    \cf4 join \cf5 Title_Producer tp \cf4 on \cf5 tp.\cf6 title \cf5 = gen.\cf6 title\cf5 ) \cf4 as \cf5 prod\
              \cf4 join \cf5 member \cf4 M on M\cf5 .\cf6 ID \cf5 = prod.\cf6 producer\
     \cf4 where M\cf5 .\cf6 name \cf4 like \cf7 '%Gill%'\cf5 ) \cf4 as \cf5 counter\
\cf4 group by \cf6 Name\
\cf4 order by \cf5 Counts \cf4 desc;\
\
\
\
\cf2 -- QUERY 4\
\cf4 SELECT \cf6 Name\cf4 , 
\f1\i \cf8 count
\f0\i0 \cf5 (\cf6 runtimeMinutes\cf5 ) \cf4 as \cf5 counts\
\cf4 FROM \cf5 (\cf4 SELECT  \cf6 Name\cf4 , \cf5 T.\cf6 runtimeMinutes\
    \cf4 FROM \cf5 (\cf4 SELECT \cf6 Producer\cf4 , M\cf5 .\cf6 name\cf4 , \cf6 title\
          \cf4 FROM \cf5 Title_Producer P\
                   \cf4 JOIN \cf5 Member \cf4 M on \cf5 P.\cf6 Producer \cf5 = \cf4 M\cf5 .\cf6 id\
          \cf4 WHERE M\cf5 .\cf6 deathYear \cf4 IS NULL\cf5 ) \cf4 AS \cf5 pnt\
             \cf4 JOIN \cf5 Title T \cf4 on \cf5 pnt.\cf6 Title \cf5 = T.\cf6 tid\
    \cf4 WHERE 
\f1\i \cf8 cast
\f0\i0 \cf5 (T.\cf6 runtimeminutes \cf4 as int\cf5 ) > \cf9 120\cf5 ) \cf4 AS \cf5 nr\
\cf4 GROUP BY \cf6 Name\
\cf4 ORDER BY \cf5 counts \cf4 DESC;\
\
\
\cf2 -- QUERY 5\
\cf4 SELECT \cf6 id\cf4 , \cf6 name\
\cf4 FROM \cf5 (\cf4 SELECT DISTINCT\cf5 (\cf6 actor\cf5 )\
     \cf4 FROM \cf5 actor_title_character\cf4 ,\
          \cf5 (\cf4 SELECT \cf6 id \cf4 FROM \cf5 Characters \cf4 where \cf5 Characters.\cf6 Characters \cf4 like \cf7 'Jesus Christ'\cf5 ) \cf4 AS C\
     where \cf5 actor_title_character.\cf6 characters \cf5 = \cf4 C\cf5 .\cf6 id\cf5 ) \cf4 AS \cf5 actor\
        \cf4 JOIN \cf5 member \cf4 ON \cf5 actor = member.\cf6 id\
\cf4 WHERE \cf6 deathYear \cf4 is NULL;\
\
\
\
\
\
create index \cf5 "index" \cf4 on \cf5 title_actor(\cf6 actor\cf4 ,\cf6 title\cf5 )\cf4 ;\
\cf2 -- IMPROVED RUNTIME: 5s 232ms\
\
\cf4 create index \cf5 "index1" \cf4 on \cf5 title(\cf6 startyear\cf5 )\cf4 ;\
\cf2 --IMPROVED RUNTIME: 8s 366ms\
\
\cf4 create index \cf5 "index2" \cf4 on \cf5 title_genre(\cf6 genre\cf5 )\cf4 ;\
\cf2 --IMPROVED RUNTIME: 2s 234ms\
\
\cf4 create index \cf5 "index3" \cf4 on \cf5 member(\cf6 deathYear\cf5 )\cf4 ;\
\cf2 --IMPROVED RUNTIME: 5s 312ms\
\
\cf4 create index \cf5 "index4" \cf4 on \cf5 characters(\cf6 characters\cf5 )\cf4 ;\
\cf2 --IMPROVED RUNTIME: 577ms\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}